Principles of Microservices:

Single Responsibility Principle
The single responsibility principle states that a class or a module in a program should have only one responsibility. Any microservice cannot serve more than one responsibility, at a time.
Modeled around business domain
Microservice never restrict itself from accepting appropriate technology stack or database. The stack or database is most suitable for solving the business purpose.
Isolated Failure
The large application can remain mostly unaffected by the failure of a single module. It is possible that a service can fail at any time. So, it is important to detect failure quickly, if possible, automatically restore failure.
Infrastructure Automation
The infrastructure automation is the process of scripting environments. With the help of scripting environment, we can apply the same configuration to a single node or thousands of nodes. It is also known as configuration management, scripted infrastructures, and system configuration management.
Deploy independently
Microservices are platform agnostic. It means we can design and deploy them independently without affecting the other services.




Features of Microservices

Decoupling – Services within a system are largely decoupled. So the application as a whole can be easily built, altered, and scaled
Componentization – Microservices are treated as independent components that can be easily replaced and upgraded
Business Capabilities – Microservices are very simple and focus on a single capability 
Autonomy – Developers and teams can work independently of each other, thus increasing speed
Continous Delivery – Allows frequent releases of software, through systematic automation of software creation, testing, and approval 
Responsibility – Microservices do not focus on applications as projects. Instead, they treat applications as products for which they are responsible 
Decentralized Governance – The focus is on using the right tool for the right job. That means there is no standardized pattern or any technology pattern. Developers have the freedom to choose the best useful tools to solve their problems 
Agility – Any new feature can be quickly developed and discarded again





Components of Microservices

Spring Cloud Config Server
Spring Cloud Config Server provides the HTTP resource-based API for external configuration in the distributed system. We can enable the Spring Cloud Config Server by using the annotation @EnableConfigServer.
Netflix Eureka Naming Server
Netflix Eureka Server is a discovery server. It provides the REST interface to the outside for communicating with it. A microservice after coming up, register itself as a discovery client. The Eureka server also has another software module called Eureka Client. Eureka client interacts with the Eureka server for service discovery. The Eureka client also balances the client requests.
Hystrix Server
Hystrix server acts as a fault-tolerance robust system. It is used to avoid complete failure of an application. It does this by using the Circuit Breaker mechanism. If the application is running without any issue, the circuit remains closed. If there is an error encountered in the application, the Hystrix Server opens the circuit. The Hystrix server stops the further request to calling service. It provides a highly robust system.
Netflix Zuul API Gateway Server
Netflix Zuul Server is a gateway server from where all the client request has passed through. It acts as a unified interface to a client. It also has an inbuilt load balancer to load the balance of all incoming request from the client.
Netflix Ribbon
Netflix Ribbon is the client-side Inter-Process Communication (IPC) library. It provides the client-side balancing algorithm. It uses a Round Robin Load Balancing: Load balancing, Fault tolerance, Multiple protocols(HTTP, TCP, UDP), Caching and Batching
Zipkin Distributed Server
Zipkin is an open-source project m project. That provides a mechanism for sending, receiving, and visualization traces.




